# CBD – Lab201 – 98039

mongod -dbpath <WhereToRunMongoDB>

[WINDOWS] C:\MongoDB\bin\mongod.exe --dbpath C:\MongoDB\data

Start MongoDB
> cd C:\MongoDB\bin
> mongod

Connect mongodb through shell
> mongo

Import data
mongoimport --db cbd --collection restaurants --drop --file <Path>
mongoimport --db cbd --collection restaurants --drop --file C:\Users\DanielaDias\Documents\Uni\CBD\Lab-2\2_2\restaurants.json

To switch databases, type use <db>
You do not need to create the database before you switch. 
MongoDB creates the database when you first store data in that database (such as create the first collection in the database).

---

How does MongoDB store data?

A record in MongoDB is a document, which is a data structure composed of field and value pairs. 
MongoDB documents are similar to JSON objects. The values of fields may include other documents, arrays, and arrays of documents.

MongoDB stores documents in collections. Collections are analogous to tables in relational databases.

---

The advantages of using documents are:

Documents (i.e. objects) correspond to native data types in many programming languages.
Embedded documents and arrays reduce need for expensive joins.
Dynamic schema supports fluent polymorphism.

---

MongoDB CRUD Operations

- Create Operations

Create or insert operations add new documents to a collection. 
If the collection does not currently exist, insert operations will create the collection.

Methods:
db.collection.insertOne() 
db.collection.insertMany() 

The operation returns a document that contains the acknowledgement indicator and an array that contains the _id of each successfully inserted documents.

In MongoDB, insert operations target a single collection. All write operations in MongoDB are atomic on the level of a single document.

- Find Operations

Read operations retrieve documents from a collection; i.e. query a collection for documents.

Methods:

db.collection.find()

Select all documents:
db.collection.find( {} )

Find all documents where field equals "value"
db.collection.find( { field: value } )

Use the query operators to specify conditions (query filter document)
db.collection.find( { field : { operator: value }})

    Example: Find documents in collection collection where status equals either "A" or "D"
    db.collection.find( { status: { $in: [ "A", "D" ] } } )

Specify AND Conditions
db.collection.find( { field1: value1, field2: value2 } )

Specify OR Conditions
db.collection.find( { $or: [ { field1: value1 }, { field2: value2 } ] } )

The db.collection.find() method returns a cursor. 

- Update Operations

Methods:
db.collection.updateOne()
db.collection.updateMany()
db.collection.replaceOne()

You can specify criteria, or filters, that identify the documents to update. These filters use the same syntax as read operations.

db.collection.updateMany( { updateFilter }, { updateAction} )

- Delete Operations

Methods:
db.collection.deleteOne()
db.collection.deleteMany()

---

Specify Fields to Return (Projection)

To specify fields to return, pass a projection document to the db.collection.find(<query document>, <projection document>) method. 
In the projection document, specify:

<field>: 1 to include a field in the returned documents
<field>: 0 to exclude a field in the returned documents

Example:
db.movies.find( { }, { "title": 1, "directors": 1, "year": 1 } );

---

Aggregate Data ($group)

You can use aggregation to group values from multiple documents together and return a single result. 
Aggregation in MongoDB is performed with an aggregation pipeline.

While find() operations are useful for data retrieval, the aggregation pipeline allows you to manipulate data, perform calculations, and write more expressive queries than simple CRUD operations.

Example:
db.movies.aggregate( [
   { $unwind: "$genres" },
   {
     $group: {
       _id: "$genres",
       genreCount: { $count: { } }
     }
   },
   { $sort: { "genreCount": -1 } }
] )

The pipeline uses:

$unwind to output a document for each element in the genres array.
$group and the $count accumulator to count the number of occurrences of each genre. This value is stored in the genreCount field.
$sort to sort the resulting documents by the genreCount field in descending order.

---

_id Field
Once set, you cannot update the value of the _id field nor can you replace an existing document with a replacement document that has a different _id field value.


--- MongoDB Driver

Use MongoClient() to make a connection to a running MongoDB instance.

The MongoClient instance represents a pool of connections to the database; 
You will only need one instance of class MongoClient even with multiple threads.

You can instantiate a MongoClient object without any parameters to connect to a MongoDB instance running on localhost on port 27017

Specify the name of the database to the getDatabase() method. 
If a database does not exist, MongoDB creates the database when you first store data for that database.